---
title: "Air to Air Heat Exchanger"
source: https://www.kelvion.com/products/heating-solutions/air-to-air-heat-exchanger
date: 2024-12-20
type: documentation
tier: 1
---

# Air to Air Heat Exchanger

Heating Solutions
Air to Air Heat Exchanger
Efficient heat transfer and easy installation
Air to Air Heat Exchanger
That's how it works: Warm air from the process flows around thinwalled plain tubes, cools down and condenses if necessary. Cold fresh air flows inside the tubes, is preheated by the exhaust air and then brought into the process - realizing an efficient heat recovery.
Get in contact
That's how it works: Warm air from the process flows around thinwalled plain tubes, cools down and condenses if necessary. Cold fresh air flows inside the tubes, is preheated by the exhaust air and then brought into the process - realizing an efficient heat recovery.
Get in contact
Customized air-to-air heat exchangers in welded and glued designs
Air to Air heat exchangers are designed as both simple crossflow and cross-counterflow with reversal hoods. As material stainless steel is used, thus the condensation of water is not crititcal.
In order to provide process and cost effective solution we may mix glued and welded solution as well as stainless steel and carbon steel materials. We have solutions for a wide range of air volume flows, as well as temperatures - we have experience up till 1000°C.
Air To Air Glued
The Air To Air Glued is a lightweight construction where the tube to tube-sheet connection is generated by a special silicon-free glue. This type of heat exchanger can be perfectly used in low to medium temperature applications up to a temperature of 180°C. The significant weight reduction of the Kelvion recuperator allows one to install it in previously inaccessible locations. The reduced need for welding and use of thin-walled components make the new construction cheaper and less complicated to manufacture, while also maintaining its full functionality.
Air To Air Welded
The Air To Air Welded is suited for applications with higher temperatures, higher pollution and higher external loads on the heat exchanger, fully customised to fulfill the individual customer needs. The tube to tube-sheet connection is generated via welding.
Images
Kelvion Air to Air Heat Exchanger
The benefits of our air-to-air heat exchangers:
Silicon-free glue
Lightweight construction
Easy to clean
Designed for every customer needs
Air to Air Heat Exchanger
A wide range of applications
Supermarkets
Food & Meat Processing
Distribution Centers
Dairy
Beverages
Sugar & Ethanol
Processed Food
Oils & Fats
Check out our other categories
This is Kelvion
Industries & Applications
Load more filters
Show less filters
Social & Society
Environment & Climate
Governance
Loading
